# G20RenewableEnergyInvestigation
This project came from my interest in the renewable energy market as the country leaders from across the world are working together to address the environmental issues that are caused by the use of non-renewable energy such as climate change, and outage of energy sources, etc… Recently the world bank has stopped funding energy companies in mining more non-renewable energy such as natural gas and oil reserves, which led to some huge profit loss in some of the biggest non-renewable producing companies. The Paris Agreement also enforces that each country has to slowly shift their energy production away from those that damages the environment or causes negative socio-economic impacts. The 3 questions that I want to learn are: 

1. What is the trend of renewable energy as % of primary energy supply of the G20 countries for the past 5 years?

2. How does the % of primary energy supply(Renewable) compare to % of primary energy supply(Non-renewable) for the G20 countries in 2019? Which country has highest % renewable energy as their primary energy supply, and which country has lowest % renewable energy as their primary energy supply among the G20 countries?

3. Do % primary energy supply in renewable energy affect the amount of electricity generated? (2017-2019)

All of which were answered by the data that I found and interpreted in my final project. However, I would’ve learned a lot more in the renewable energy field if I had more recent, and elaborative data that I could analyze. Another thing that I wanted to learn but couldn’t was how % of GDP spent by the government on education affect the amount of renewable energy being produced, but I could not seem to find the data on it, which is quite unfortunate.

What I would have done differently if I were to do this project again is that I would like to explore more factors that would possibly affect the amount of % primary energy supply being renewable energy, and try to find out which factors affect the amount of electricity generated by each country. The reason for this is that although I found out % primary energy supply in renewable energy does not influence the amount of electricity generated by each country, I didn't really discover the factors that affect the electricity generation and the reason for some countries having higher % of renewable energy as their primary energy supply. This is something that I would like to dig deeper and learn about.

To run my project, the csv files on the data would have to be imported. After that one would just have to run each cell in order. The result for each step should be described in the comments.

The project was challenging in the way I expected because it required me to be efficient with using Pandas, Numpy and Matplotlib packages. Also the order in writing and running each cell has to be logically planned out so that I could use the results for each following step. I overcame the issue by carefully thinking or noting down step by step and the results that I would have to have ready before proceeding to the next step. 


Citation: 
“Energy - Renewable Energy - OECD Data.” TheOECD, https://data.oecd.org/energy/renewable-energy.htm. 
All of the data that I used in the project came from this databank. 
In answering my first question: What is the trend of renewable energy as % of primary energy supply of the G20 countries for the past 5 years? I downloaded the % of primary energy supply(renewable) of the G20 for the past 5 years, then I cleaned the data so that I only took the Location and Value to construct my dataframe. From the dataframe, I would then draw a bar graph presenting the values for each year and each of the G20 countries to find the trend. 
In answering my second question: How does the % of primary energy supply(Renewable) compare to % of primary energy supply(Non-renewable) for the G20 countries in 2019? Which country has highest % renewable energy as their primary energy supply, and which country has lowest % renewable energy as their primary energy supply among the G20 countries? I downloaded the data of % of primary energy supply (Renewable) and built the dataframe using the location and value columns. Then I created another column in the dataframe to be % of primary energy supply (Non-renewable) by using 100% to subtract the % of primary energy supply being renewable. Then I draw a bar graph with the two columns to see the comparison. 
In answering the third question: Do % primary energy supply in renewable energy affect the amount of electricity generated? (2017-2019) I downloaded the electricity generated data for all countries and the % of primary energy supply (renewable) from 2017 to 2019. For each year, I merged the two data into one dataframe and cleaned the data by replacing NaN with 0. I plotted the two variables using a scatter plot and calculated the correlation coefficient with the function that I wrote. 
